The `sort` package contains an interface named `sort.Interface` that allows you to sort slices according to your needs and your data, provided that you implement `sort.Interface` for the custom data types stored in your slices. The `sort` package defines the `sort.Interface` as follows:

```Go
type Interface interface {
    // Len is the number of elements in the collection.
    Len() int
    // Less reports whether the element with
    // index i should sort before the element with index j.
    Less(i, j int) bool
    // Swap swaps the elements with indexes i and j.
    Swap(i, j int)
}
```

What we can understand from the definition of `sort.Interface` is that in order to implement `sort.Interface`, we need to implement the following three type methods:

- `Len() int`
- `Less(i, j int) bool`
- `Swap(i, j int)`

The `Len()` method returns the length of the slice that will be sorted and helps the interface to process all slice elements, whereas the `Less()` method, which compares and sorts elements in pairs, defines how elements, are going to be compared and therefore sorted. The return value of `Less()` is `bool`, which means that `Less()` only cares about whether the element at index `i` is bigger or not than the element at index `j` in the way that the two elements are being compared. Last, the `Swap()` method is used for swapping two elements of the slice, which is required for the sorting algorithm to work.

The following code, which can be found in `sort.go`, illustrates the use of `sort.Interface`.

```Go
package main
import (
    "fmt"
    "sort"
)
type Size struct {
    F1 int
    F2 string
    F3 int
}
// We want to sort Person records based on the value of Size.F1
// Which is Size.F1 as F3 is an Size structure
type Person struct {
    F1 int
    F2 string
    F3 Size
}
```

The `Person` structure includes a field named `F3` that is of the `Size` data type, which is also a structure.

```go
type Personslice []Person
```

You need to have a slice because all sorting operations work on slices. It is for this slice, which should be a new data type that in this case is called `Personslice`, that you are going to implement the three type methods of the `sort.Interface`.

```go
// Implementing sort.Interface for Personslice
func (a Personslice) Len() int {
    return len(a)
}
```

Here is the implementation of `Len()` for the `Personslice` data type. It is usually that simple.

```go
// What field to use when comparing
func (a Personslice) Less(i, j int) bool {
    return a[i].F3.F1 < a[j].F3.F1
}
```

Here is the implementation of `Less()` for the `Personslice` data type. This method defines the way elements get sorted. In this case, by using a field of the embedded data structure (`F3.F1`).

```go
func (a Personslice) Swap(i, j int) {
    a[i], a[j] = a[j], a[i]
}
```

This is the implementation of the `Swap()` type method that defines the way to swap slice elements during sorting. It is usually that simple.

```Go
func main() {
    data := []Person{
        Person{1, "One", Size{1, "Person_1", 10}},
        Person{2, "Two", Size{2, "Person_2", 20}},
        Person{-1, "Two", Size{-1, "Person_3", -20}},
    }
    
    fmt.Println("Before:", data)
    sort.Sort(Personslice(data))
    fmt.Println("After:", data)
    // Reverse sorting works automatically
    sort.Sort(sort.Reverse(Personslice(data)))
    fmt.Println("Reverse:", data)
}
```

Once you have implemented `sort.Interface`, you are going to see that `sort.Reverse()`, which is used for reverse sorting your slice, works automatically.

Running `sort.go` generates the following output:

```
$ go run sort.go
Before: [{1 One {1 Person_1 10}} {2 Two {2 Person_2 20}} {-1 Two {-1 Person_3 -20}}]
After: [{-1 Two {-1 Person_3 -20}} {1 One {1 Person_1 10}} {2 Two {2 Person_2 20}}]
Reverse: [{2 Two {2 Person_2 20}} {1 One {1 Person_1 10}} {-1 Two {-1 Person_3 -20}}]
```

The first line shows the elements of the slice as initially stored. The second line shows the sorted version, whereas the last line shows the reverse sorted version.

Let us now present the handy empty interface.

## The empty interface

As mentioned before, the empty interface is defined as just `interface{}` and is already implemented by all data types. Therefore, variables of any data type can be put in the place of a parameter of the empty interface data type.

Therefore, a function with an `interface{}` parameter can accept variables of any data type in this place. However, if you intend to work with `interface{}` function parameters without examining their data type inside the function, you should process them with statements that work on all data types; otherwise, your code may crash or misbehave. Alternatively, you can use generics with proper constraints to avoid any undesired effects.

The program that follows defines two structures named `S1` and `S2` but just a single function named `Print()` for printing any of them. This is allowed because `Print()` requires an `interface{}` parameter that can accept both `S1` and `S2` variables. The `fmt.Println(s)` statement inside `Print()` can work with both `S1` and `S2`.

If you create a function that accepts one or more `interface{}` parameters and you run a statement that can only be applied to a limited number of data types, things will not work out well. As an example, not all `interface{}` parameters can be multiplied by 5 or be used in `fmt.Printf()` with the `%d` control string.

The source code of `empty.go` is as follows:

```
package main
import "fmt"
type S1 struct {
    F1 int
    F2 string
}
type S2 struct {
    F1 int
    F2 S1
}
func Print(s interface{}) {
    fmt.Println(s)
}
func main() {
    v1 := S1{10, "Hello"}
    v2 := S2{F1: -1, F2: v1}
    Print(v1)
    Print(v2)
```

Although `v1` and `v2` are of different data types, `Print()` can work with both of them.

```
    // Printing an integer
    Print(123)
    // Printing a string
    Print("Go is the best!")
}
```

`Print()` can also work with integers and strings.

Running `empty.go` produces the following output:

```
{10 Hello}
{-1 {10 Hello}}
123
Go is the best!
```

Using the empty interface is easy as soon as you realize that you can pass any type of variable in the place of an `interface{}` parameter and you can return any data type as an `interface{}` return value. However, with great power comes great responsibility—you should be very careful with `interface{}` parameters and their return values because, in order to use their real values, you have to be sure about their underlying data type. We are going to discuss this in the next section.