### Image content in Fyne defines graphical content that will normally stretch or shrink to the space that is allocated to it. Loading a bitmap image (which has dimensions that are defined by the number of pixels) into a scalable output may not provide the expected outcome. The rendered output of a size defined in pixels will vary depending on the scale of the output device or user preferences. For this reason, Fyne does not normally set a minimum size for images that are being loaded.

### Images can be loaded from files, resources, data streams, and more. Each file should have a unique name (or path), which makes it possible for performance improvements through caching. Loading an image from the filesystem should be done through the Fyne `storage` API to avoid any platform-specific code or assumptions (this is explored in detail in [_Chapter 4_](https://subscription.packtpub.com/book/programming/9781800563162/6), _Layout and File Handling_). You can use `storage.NewFileURI` to get the reference to a file path if that is needed. For example, to load an image from a file path, you would call the following:**

```Go
img := canvas.NewImageFromURI(storage.NewFileURI(path))
```

- `canvas.ImageFillStretch`: The default value. This will adjust the image dimensions up or down to match the image object size, adjusting the **aspect ratio** (the ratio of width to height values), which can cause images to look squashed or stretched.
- `canvas.ImageFillContain`: This fill option will retain the aspect ratio so that the image is not distorted and draws it as the largest size possible that can fit within the image size. This will usually leave a space on two of the edges so that the image is centered in the available space.
- `canvas.ImageFillOriginal`: In original fill mode, the image will display using one output pixel for each pixel in the image. Although this seems desirable, it is important to note that it's visible size will vary based on the device because of the variation of pixel density. Using this value will also ensure that sufficient space will be reserved to draw the required number of pixels. If it is likely that the image will be larger than the space available, be sure to wrap it in a scroll container (discussed in [_Chapter 5_](https://subscription.packtpub.com/book/programming/9781800563162/7)_, Widget Library and Themes_).s_).
