

The Go standard library has excellent support for file handling across its supported platforms. The `os` package allows access to the filesystem (files and directories) and utility packages such as `filepath` that help to parse and manage locations using the current operating system's semantics. While these operations are likely useful on most devices, they do not extend as well to non-desktop devices where a traditional filesystem is not what the end user is presented with.

Consider mobile devices, for example. Both iOS and Android have a traditional filesystem internally, but the filesystem is not completely available to the device user, nor is it the only source of file data. An application will typically only have access to its own sandbox directory—reading and writing files outside of this space is not permitted—and on iOS, you may even need to request special permissions before accessing it. In addition to that, users now expect to be able to open data from other sources. For example, a file-sharing application such as Dropbox could provide a source of files that a user may wish to pass into your application, but this data is not accessible using standard file handling.

For these reasons, the Fyne toolkit includes a simple storage abstraction that allows your application to handle data from any source, while managing permissions and security considerations for you. This interaction uses the concept of a **URI** to replace traditional file paths, allowing apps to operate without direct access to files and directories.

## URI

At the core of the file handling abstraction is `fyne.URI` (here **URI** stands for **Uniform Resource Identifier**). A URI will be familiar to most computer users as it looks exactly like a web URL, with the small difference that it does not always start with `http://` or `https://`. A URI may represent a filesystem object (where it would start with `file://`), a data stream from another app (where it may begin `content://`), or a remote resource (such as `sftp://` for a Secure File Transfer Protocol connection).

Like the `os.File` type, `fyne.URI` is a reference to a resource, though it does not keep that resource open, so it may be passed around your application without issues. The underlying string representation of this URI can be accessed using the `String()` method. Use this if you wish to store the URI reference for later use, for example, in a configuration file or database. If you have a URI string representation, the original URI object can be accessed using utilities in the `storage` package, as follows:

```Go
uriString := "file:///home/user/file.txt”
myUri, err := storage.ParseURI(uriString)
```

## Reading and writing

Accessing files when you are not certain where they are stored is a little more complicated than the traditional `os.Open()`; however, the Fyne `storage` package provides functionality to handle this. The two main functions for data access are `OpenFileFromURI` and `SaveFileToURI`, as shown in this excerpt from the package:

```Go
// OpenFileFromURI loads a file read stream from a resource 	// identifier.
func OpenFileFromURI(uri fyne.URI) (fyne.URIReadCloser, error) {
     return fyne.CurrentApp().Driver().FileReaderForURI(uri)
}
// SaveFileToURI loads a file write stream to a resource      // identifier.
func SaveFileToURI(uri fyne.URI) (fyne.URIWriteCloser, error) {
     return fyne.CurrentApp().Driver().FileWriterForURI(uri)
}
```

Each of these functions take a URI (as described in the preceding code) for the location and returns `URIReadCloser` or `URIWriteCloser` on success and `error` if the operation failed.

As suggested by their names, these return types implement `io.ReadCloser` and `io.WriteCloser` with the addition of a `URI()` function to query the original resource identifier. You may not recognize these `io` interfaces, but you will have used them through `os.File`. This similarity means that you can use `URIReadCloser` in many places where you would have passed a file for a read operation, or `URIWriteCloser` if you were writing data.

If you are processing the read or write operations yourself, it is important to remember to call `Close()` upon completion (as with any `io.Closer` stream). This is most commonly ensured by calling `defer reader.Close()` after checking for any error. The following code shows a simple example of reading a file from a URI:

```Go
    uri := storage.NewFileURI("/home/user/file.txt")
    read, err := storage.OpenFileFromURI(uri)
    if err != nil {
        log.Println("Unable to open file \""+uri.               	            String()+"\"", err)
        return
    }
    defer read.Close()
    data, err := ioutil.ReadAll(read)
    if err != nil {
        log.Println("Unable to read text", err)
        return
    }
    log.Println("Loaded data:", string(data))
```

## User file selection

The most common way for an application to open a file, at least initially, would be to prompt the user to choose the file they wish to open. The standard file-open dialog is available to provide this feature. An application can call `dialog.ShowFileOpen`, which will ask the user to select a file (with optional file filters). The chosen file will be returned through a callback function as `URIReadCloser`, as described earlier. If you wish to store a reference to the chosen file, you can use the `URI()` method to return the identifier. The following code shows this in action:

```Go
dialog.ShowFileOpen(func(reader fyne.URIReadCloser, err error) {
    if err != nil { // there was an error - tell user
        dialog.ShowError(err, win)
        return
    }
    if reader == nil { // user cancelled
        return
    }
    // we have a URIReadCloser - handle reading the file
    // (remember to call Close())
    fileOpened(reader)
}, win)
```

Similarly, there is `dialog.ShowFileSave` to start a file-write workflow such as the common _Save As_ feature. For more information on the dialog package, see the _Dialogs_ section in [_Chapter 5_](https://subscription.packtpub.com/book/programming/9781800563162/7), _Widget Library and Themes_.

## ListableURI

In some applications, it may be necessary to open a resource that contains other resources (just like a directory of files). For these situations, there is another type, `fyne.ListableURI`, which provides a `List()` method that returns a slice of `URI` items. This can be used in combination with `dialog.ShowDirectoryOpen`, which will return the user's selected location as `ListableURI`.

Let's take a look at an example:

```Go
dialog.ShowFolderOpen(func(dir fyne.ListableURI, err error) {
    if err != nil { // there was an error - tell user
        dialog.ShowError(err, win)
        return
    }
    if dir == nil { // user cancelled
        return
    }
    log.Println("Listing dir", dir.Name())
    for _, item := range dir.List() {
        log.Println("Item name", item.Name())
    }
}, win)
```

As you can see in this example, once the user has made their selection, `ListableURI` is passed to our code. We can then iterate through the URI of each item inside the directory or collection using `range List()`. If you already have the name of a directory, then you can use `storage.ListerForURI(storage.NewFileURI(dirPath))`.

Let's put layouts and file handling into action. We will now build a simple image browsing application using all that we've seen till now.