
## Reading from /dev/random

In this subsection, you will learn how to read from the `/dev/random` system device. The purpose of the `/dev/random` system device is to generate random data, which you might use to test your programs or, in this case, as the seed for a random number generator. Getting data from `/dev/random` can be a little bit tricky, and this is the main reason for specifically discussing it here.

The code for `devRandom.go` is the following:

```
package main
import (
    "encoding/binary"
    "fmt"
    "os"
)
```

You need `encoding/binary` because you read binary data from `/dev/random` that you convert into integer values.

```
func main() {
    f, err := os.Open("/dev/random")
    defer f.Close()
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Println(err)
        return
    }
    var seed int64
    binary.Read(f, binary.LittleEndian, &seed)
    fmt.Println("Seed:", seed)
}
```

There are two representations named _little endian_ and _big endian_ that relate to the byte order in the internal representation. In our case, we are using little endian. The endian-ness relates to the way different computing systems order multiple bytes of information.

A real-world example of endian-ness is how different languages read text in different ways: European languages tend to be read from left to right, whereas Arabic texts are read from right to left.

In a big endian representation, bytes are read from left to right, while little endian reads bytes from right to left. For the `0x01234567` value, which requires 4 bytes for storing, the big endian representation is `01 | 23 | 45 | 67`, whereas the little endian representation is `67 | 45 | 23 | 01`.

Running `devRandom.go` creates the following kind of output:

```
$ go run devRandom.go
Seed: 422907465220227415
```

This means that the `/dev/random` device is a good place to get random data, including a seed value for your random number generator.

## Reading a specific amount of data from a file

This subsection teaches you how to read a specific amount of data from a file. The presented utility can come in handy when you want to see a small part of a file. The numeric value that is given as a command line argument specifies the size of the buffer that is going to be used for reading. The most important code of `readSize.go` is the implementation of the `readSize()` function:

```
func readSize(f *os.File, size int) []byte {
    buffer := make([]byte, size)
    n, err := f.Read(buffer)
```

All the magic happens in the definition of the `buffer` variable, because this is where we define the maximum amount of data that it can hold. Therefore, each time we invoke `readSize()`, the function is going to read from `f` at most `size` characters.

```
    // io.EOF is a special case and is treated as such
    if err == io.EOF {
        return nil
    }
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Println(err)
        return nil
    }
    return buffer[0:n]
}
```

The remaining code is about error conditions; `io.EOF` is a special and expected condition that should be treated separately and return the read characters as a byte slice to the caller function.

Running `readSize.go` produces the following kind of output.

```
$ go run readSize.go 12 readSize.go
package main
```

In this case, we read 12 characters from `readSize.go` itself because of the `12` parameter. Now that we know how to read files, it is time to learn how to write to files.