So far, we have seen ways to read files. This subsection shows how to write data to files in four different ways and how to append data to an existing file. The code of `writeFile.go` is as follows:

```go
package main
import (
    "bufio"
    "fmt"
    "io"
    "os"
)
func main() {
    buffer := []byte("Data to write\n")
    f1, err := os.Create("/tmp/f1.txt")
```

`os.Create()` returns an `*os.File` value associated with the file path that is passed as a parameter. Note that if the file already exists, `os.Create()` truncates it.

```go
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Println("Cannot create file", err)
        return
    }
    defer f1.Close()
    fmt.Fprintf(f1, string(buffer))
```

The `fmt.Fprintf()` function, which requires a `string` variable, helps you write data to your own files using the format you want. The only requirement is having an `io.Writer` to write to. In this case, a valid `*os.File` variable, which satisfies the `io.Writer` interface, does the job.

```go
    f2, err := os.Create("/tmp/f2.txt")
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Println("Cannot create file", err)
        return
    }
    defer f2.Close()
    n, err := f2.WriteString(string(buffer))
```

`WriteString()` writes the contents of a string to a valid `*os.File` variable.

```
    fmt.Printf("wrote %d bytes\n", n)
    f3, err := os.Create("/tmp/f3.txt")
```

Here, we create a temporary file on our own.

Go also offers `os.CreateTemp()` to create temporary files. Type `go doc os.CreateTemp` to learn more about it.

```go
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Println(err)
        return
    }
    w := bufio.NewWriter(f3)
```

This function returns a `bufio.Writer`, which satisfies the `io.Writer` interface.

```go
    n, err = w.WriteString(string(buffer))
    fmt.Printf("wrote %d bytes\n", n)
    w.Flush()
    f := "/tmp/f4.txt"
    f4, err := os.Create(f)
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Println(err)
        return
    }
    defer f4.Close()
    for i := 0; i < 5; i++ {
        n, err = io.WriteString(f4, string(buffer))
        if err != nil {
            fmt.Println(err)
            return
        }
        fmt.Printf("wrote %d bytes\n", n)
    }
    // Append to a file
    f4, err = os.OpenFile(f, os.O_APPEND|os.O_CREATE|os.O_WRONLY, 0644)
```

`os.OpenFile()` provides a better way to create or open a file for writing. `os.O_APPEND` says that if the file already exists, you should append to it instead of truncating it. `os.O_CREATE` states that if the file does not already exist, it should be created. Last, `os.O_WRONLY` says that the program should open the file for writing only.

```go
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Println(err)
        return
    }
    defer f4.Close()
    // Write() needs a byte slice
    n, err = f4.Write([]byte("Put some more data at the end.\n"))
```

The `Write()` method gets its input from a byte slice, which is the Go way of writing. All previous techniques used strings, which is not the best way, especially when working with binary data. However, using strings instead of byte slices is more practical as it is more convenient to manipulate `string` values than the elements of a byte slice, especially when working with Unicode characters. On the other hand, using `string` values increases allocation and can cause a lot of garbage collection pressure.

```go
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Println(err)
        return
    }
    fmt.Printf("wrote %d bytes\n", n)
}
```

Running `writeFile.go` generates some information output about the bytes written on disk. What is interesting is seeing the files created in the `/tmp` folder:

```go
$ ls -l /tmp/f?.txt
-rw-r--r--@ 1 mtsouk  wheel   14 Aug  5 11:30 /tmp/f1.txt
-rw-r--r--@ 1 mtsouk  wheel   14 Aug  5 11:30 /tmp/f2.txt
-rw-r--r--@ 1 mtsouk  wheel   14 Aug  5 11:30 /tmp/f3.txt
-rw-r--r--@ 1 mtsouk  wheel  101 Aug  5 11:30 /tmp/f4.txt
```

The previous output shows that the same amount of information (14 bytes) has been written in `f1.txt`, `f2.txt`, and `f3.txt`, which means that the presented writing techniques are equivalent.

The next section shows how to work with JSON data in Go.

# Working with JSON

The Go standard library includes `encoding/json`, which is for working with JSON data. Additionally, Go allows you to add support for JSON fields in Go structures using tags, which is the subject of the Structures and JSON subsection. Tags control the encoding and decoding of JSON records to and from Go structures. But first, we should talk about the _marshaling_ and _unmarshaling_ of JSON records.

## Using Marshal() and Unmarshal()

Both the marshaling and unmarshaling of JSON data are important procedures for working with JSON data using Go structures. Marshaling is the process of converting a Go structure into a JSON record. You usually want that for transferring JSON data via computer networks or for saving it on disk. Unmarshaling is the process of converting a JSON record given as a byte slice into a Go structure. You usually want that when receiving JSON data via computer networks or when loading JSON data from disk files.

The number one bug when converting JSON records into Go structures, and vice versa, is not making the required fields of your Go structures exported, that is having their first letter in uppercase. When you have issues with marshaling and unmarshaling, begin your debugging process from there.

The code in `encodeDecode.go` illustrates both the marshaling and unmarshaling of JSON records using hardcoded data for simplicity:

```
package main
import (
    "encoding/json"
    "fmt"
)
type UseAll struct {
    Name    string `json:"username"`
    Surname string `json:"surname"`
    Year    int    `json:"created"`
}
```

What the previous metadata tells us is that the `Name` field of the `UseAll` structure is translated to `username` in the JSON record, and vice versa; the `Surname` field is translated to `surname`, and vice versa; and the `Year` structure field is translated to `created` in the JSON record, and vice versa. This information has to do with the marshaling and unmarshaling of JSON data. Other than this, you treat and use `UseAll` as a regular Go structure.

```
func main() {
    useall := UseAll{Name: "Mike", Surname: "Tsoukalos", Year: 2023}
    // Encoding JSON data: Convert Structure to JSON record with fields
    t, err := json.Marshal(&useall)
```

The `json.Marshal()` function requires a pointer to a structure variable—its real data type is an empty interface variable—and returns a byte slice with the encoded information and an `error` variable.

```
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Println(err)
    } else {
        fmt.Printf("Value %s\n", t)
    }
    // Decoding JSON data given as a string
    str := `{"username": "M.", "surname": "Ts", "created":2024}`
```

JSON data usually comes as a string.

```
    // Convert string into a byte slice
    jsonRecord := []byte(str)
```

However, as `json.Unmarshal()` requires a byte slice, you need to convert that `string` into a byte slice before passing it to `json.Unmarshal()`.

```
    // Create a structure variable to store the result
    temp := UseAll{}
    err = json.Unmarshal(jsonRecord, &temp)
```

The `json.Unmarshal()` function requires the byte slice with the JSON record and a pointer to the Go structure variable that will store the JSON record, returning an `error` variable.

```
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Println(err)
    } else {
        fmt.Printf("Data type: %T with value %v\n", temp, temp)
    }
}
```